Wealth is the product of man's capacity to think.
The best luck of all is the luck you make for yourself.
Many people think of knowledge as money, They would like knowledge, but do not want to face the perseverance and self-denial that goes into the acquisition of it.
Happy is the man who has broken the chains which hurt the mind, and has given up worrying once and for all.
A man's delight in looking forward to and hoping for some particular satisfaction is a part of the pleasure flowing out of it, enjoyed in advance. But this is afterward deducted, for the more we look forward to anything the less we enjoy it when it comes.
No evil is without its compensation. The less money, the less trouble; the less favor, the less envy. Even in those cases which put us out of wits, it is not the loss itself, but the estimate of the loss that troubles us.
Lack of money is the root of all evil.
Talk is by far the most accessible of pleasures. It costs nothing in money, it is all profit, it completes our education, founds and fosters our friendships, and can be enjoyed at any age and in almost any state of health.
No one would remember the Good Samaritan if he only had good intentions. He had money as well.
Wealth unused might as well not exist.
The only thing money gives you is the freedom of not worrying about money.
An idealist is a person who helps other people to be prosperous.
Misfortunes tell us what fortune is.
You will die a slow and painful death today.
Laugh when you can, cry when you must.
He who throws dirt is losing ground.
You can always find happiness at work on Friday.
Do not mistake temptation for opportunity.
A woman who seeks to be equal with men lacks ambition. Ouch!!!
The greatest danger could be your stupidity.
He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at.
He who laughs last is laughing at you.
A closed mouth gathers no feet.
A conclusion is simply the place where you got tired of thinking.
A cynic is only a frustrated optimist.
A fanatic is one who can't change his mind, and won't change the subject.
It doesn't matter. Who is without a flaw?
The world may be your oyster, but it doesn't mean you'll get its pearl.
Flattery will go far tonight.
A warm smile is testimony of a generous nature.
A secret admirer will soon send you a sign of affection.
In the end there are three things that last: faith, hope and love; and the greatest of these is love.
Don't forget, you are always on our minds.
Love is for the lucky and the brave.
If you continually give, you will continually have.
If you want the rainbow, you must put up with the rain.
If you would be loved, love and be lovable.
The one you love is closer than you think.
Love always and deeply.
Your heart will always make itself known through your words.
Love begets love.
We cannot do great things; only small things with great love.
Love is like wildflowers...it is often found in the most unlikely places.
Love is the only medicine for a broken heart.
Love is the triumph of imagination over intelligence.
Much more grows in the garden than that which is planted there.
One who admires you greatly is hidden before your eyes.
Only love lets us see normal things in an extraordinary way.
The greatest gift is love.
The time is right to make new friends.
There is no limit to love's forbearance, to its trust, its hope, its power to endure.
Those who have love, have wealth beyond measure.
To love is to forgive.
Hearts are not to be had as a gift, hearts are to be earned.
Your heart is a place to draw true happiness.
Love conquers all.
Count your blessings by thinking of those whom you love.
There is a true and sincere friendship between you and your friends.
You find beauty in ordinary things, do not lose this ability.
Ideas are like children; there are none so wonderful as your own.
It takes more than good memory to have good memories.
A thrilling time is in your immediate future.
Your blessing is no more than being safe and sound for the whole lifetime.
Plan for many pleasures ahead.
The joyfulness of a man prolongeth his days.
Your everlasting patience will be rewarded sooner or later.
Make two grins grow where there was only a grouch before.
Something you lost will soon turn up.
Your heart is pure, and your mind clear, and your soul devout.
Excitement and intrigue follow you closely wherever you go!
A pleasant surprise is in store for you.
May life throw you a pleasant curve.
As the purse is emptied the heart is filled.
Be mischievous and you will not be lonesome.
You have a deep appreciation of the arts and music.
Your flair for the creative takes an important place in your life.
Your artistic talents win the approval and applause of others.
Pray for what you want, but work for the things you need.
Your many hidden talents will become obvious to those around you.
Don't forget, you are always on our minds.
Your greatest fortune is the large number of friends you have.
A firm friendship will prove the foundation on your success in life.
Don't ask, don't say. Everything lies in silence.
Look for new outlets for your own creative abilities.
Be prepared to accept a wondrous opportunity in the days ahead!
Fame, riches and romance are yours for the asking.
Good luck is the result of good planning.
Good things are being said about you.
Smiling often can make you look and feel younger.
Someone is speaking well of you.
The time is right to make new friends.
You will inherit some money or a small piece of land.
Your life will be happy and peaceful.
A friend is a present you give yourself.
A member of your family will soon do something that will make you proud.
A quiet evening with friends is the best tonic for a long day.
A single kind word will keep one warm for years.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with regret.
Generosity and perfection are your everlasting goals.
Happy news is on its way to you.
He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at.
If your desires are not extravagant they will be granted.
Let there be magic in your smile and firmness in your handshake.
If you want the rainbow, you must to put up with the rain. D. Parton
Nature, time and patience are the three best physicians.
Strong and bitter words indicate a weak cause.
The beginning of wisdom is to desire it.
You will have a very pleasant experience.
You will inherit some money or a small piece of land.
You will live a long, happy life.
You will spend old age in comfort and material wealth.
You will step on the soil of many countries.
You will take a chance in something in the near future.
You will witness a special ceremony.
Your everlasting patience will be rewarded sooner or later.
Your great attention to detail is both a blessing and a curse.
Your heart is a place to draw true happiness.
Your ability to juggle many tasks will take you far.
A friend asks only for your time, not your money.
You will be invited to an exciting event.
Little and often makes much.
The days you work are the best days.
Today is a lucky day for those who remain cheerful and optimistic.
If you continually give, you will continually have.
You were born with the skill to communicate with people easily.
The hard times will begin to fade, joy will take their place.
The first step to better times is to imagine them.
Ideas are like children; there are none so wonderful as your own.
When you speak honestly and openly, others truly listen to you.
Trust your intuition. The universe is guiding your life.
It doesn't matter. Who is without a flaw?
It is much wiser to take advice than to give it.
Many a false step is made by standing still.
A thrilling time is in your immediate future.
You should be able to make money and hold on to it.
The skills you have gathered will one day come in handy.
Every excess becomes a vice.
Be direct, usually one can accomplish more that way.
Keep in close touch with what your competition is doing.
Your skill will accomplish what the force of many cannot.
Your talents will be recognized and suitably rewarded.
You can always find happiness at work on Friday.
All your hard work will soon pay off.
The secret of getting ahead is getting started.
Do not mistake temptation for opportunity.
You will be fortunate in everything you put your hands to.
Decide what you want and go for it.
You will have gold pieces by the bushel.
Put the data you have uncovered to beneficial use.
Your past success will be overshadowed by your future success.
Skill comes from diligence.
Don't forget to do good deeds as you accumulate wealth.
Keep your plans secret for now.
Your money worries are over! Your new job will bring you a huge increase in income.
A good time to finish up old tasks.
Avert misunderstanding by calm, poise and balance.
Consolidate rather than expand business projects in the near future.
Delay is the antidote for anger.
Get ready! Good fortune comes in bunches.
None of the secrets of success will work unless you do.
You will be wise not to seek too much from others.
If you want the rainbow, you must to put up with the rain.
Our first and last love...is self love.
None of the secrets of success will work unless you do.
Today is a lucky day for those who remain cheerful and optimistic.
You were born with the skill to communicate with people easily.
The first step to better times is to imagine them.
Trust your intuition. The universe is guiding your life.
It doesn't matter. Who is without a flaw?
Your happiness is intertwined with your outlook on life.
The secret of getting ahead is getting started.
Make two grins grow where there was only a grouch before.
Decide what you want and go for it.
Your past success will be overshadowed by your future success.
You are talented in many ways.
Any rough times are behind you.
Grand adventures await those who are willing to turn the corner.
None of the secrets of success will work unless you do.
The smart thing is to prepare for the unexpected.
There is yet time enough for you to take a different path.
You are very expressive and positive in words, act and feeling.
You should be able to undertake and complete anything.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
A scholars ink lasts longer than a martyrs blood.
Funny thing about humility. Just when you think you've got it, you've lost it.
If you want the rainbow, you must to put up with the rain.
You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.
The time is right to make new friends.
You can't steal second base and keep your foot on first.
We can learn from everyone, even our adversaries.
A liar is not believed even if he tells the truth.
If you continually give, you will continually receive.
The only rose without a thorn is friendship.
Depart not from the path to which you have been assigned.
When you receive the pearls of love, wear them with pride.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
A big tree attracts the gale.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A blind person who sees is better than a seeing person who is blind.
A body makes his own luck, be it good or bad.
A brother may not be a friend, but a friend will always be a brother.
A burden that one chooses is not feltt.
A carpenter is known by his chips.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A change is as good as a rest.
A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth.
A clever person turns great problems into little ones and little ones into none at all.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
A crab walks, so walks his children.
A crown's no cure for a headache.
A crust in comfort is better than a feast in fear.
A day is lost if one has not laughed.
A day of travelling will bring a basketful of learning.
A decision made at night may be changed in the morning.
A dog that will fetch a bone, will carry a bone.
A dog's life is a miserable life.
A dripping June sets all in tune.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
A fair exchange is no robbery.
A false friend and a shadow attend only while the sun shines.
A father's a treasure; a brother's a comfort; a friend is both.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A few germs never hurt anyone.
A firm tree does not fear the storm.
A fool and his money are quickly parted.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
A full person does not understand the needs of the hungry.
A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a hair.
A good book praises itself.
A good example is the best sermon.
A good lather is half the shave.
A good spectator also creates.
A good spouse and health is a person's best wealth.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
A great one must have a long heart.
A grudge is a heavy thing to carry.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A hand ready to hit, may cause you great trouble.
A hard beginning maketh a good ending.
A horse may run quickly but it cannot escape its tail.
A house divided cannot stand.
A library is a repository of medicine for the mind.
A little axe can cut down a big tree.
A little learning is a dangerous thing.
A loan though old is not a gift.
A loving heart is the truest wisdom.
A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.
A man in a passion, rides a mad horse.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man who asks is a fool for five minutes. A man who never asks is a fool for life.
A man who desires revenge should dig two graves.
A man who never made a mistake, never made anything.
A man with a cough cannot conceal himself.
A man's got to do what a man's got to do.
A man's house is his castle.
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth the bones.
A miser is like a person with bread who is starving.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
A new broom sweeps clean but an old broom knows the corners.
A penny for your thoughts.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A person has learned much who has learned how to die.
A picture is a poem without words.
A picture's worth a thousand words.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience.
A proverb is one man's wit and all men's wisdom.
A quarrelsome man has no good neighbours.
A real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks out.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
A rule isn't unfair if it applies to everyone.
A ruler must sometimes humor as well as command.
A short horse is soon curried.
A single arrow is easily broken; a bundle of ten is not.
A smile is a window in your face to show your heart is at home.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A stumble is not a fall.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
A thing is bigger for being shared.
A thousand artisans, a thousand plans.
A tree falls the way it leans.
A trouble shared is a trouble halved.
A true champion believes in themselves when no one else does.
A true friend is the best Possession.
A true soldier does not admit defeat before the battle.
A turtle travels only when it sticks its neck out.
A watched pot never boils.
A weed is a plant we've found no use for yet.
A weed is but an unloved flower.
A weed is no more than a flower in disguise.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
A word once let out of the cage cannot be whistled back again.
A work ill done must be twice done.
A year's care; a minute's ruin.
Ability may get you to the top but it's character that will keep you there.
Absence is to love as wind is to fire; it extinguishes the small and enkindles the great.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Accidents will happen
Actions speak louder than words.
Adapt the remedy to the disease.
Adversity is a gift.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
Advice after mischief is like medicine after death.
Advise no one to go to war or marry.
After crosses and losses, men grow humbler and wiser.
After dinner rest a while; after supper walk a mile.
After the war, aid.
Aim for the stars.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
Ain't no pot so crooked, you can't find a lid to fit.
All are not saints, who go to church.
All cats are grey in the dark.
All experience is education for the soul.
All food is fit to eat but not all words are fit to speak.
All good things must come to an end.
All happiness is in the mind.
All in good time.
All of us, the great and the little have need of each other.
All that glitters is not gold.
All the world's a stage.
All truth passes through three stages: First it is ridiculed, second it is violently opposed and third it is accepted as being self-evident
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All play and no work makes Jack a mere toy
All's well that ends well.
Almost only counts in horseshoes.
Always be prepared.
Always keep an open mind.
Ambition begets vexations.
Ambition destroys its possessor.
Ambition is a good servant but a bad master.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An army of a thousand is easy to find but ah how difficult to find a general.
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
An old error has more friends than a new truth.
An old ox makes a straight furrow.
An open foe may prove a curse but a pretended friend is worse.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Anger is a short madness.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
Anger is one letter short of danger.
Another day, another dollar.
Any plan is bad that cannot be changed.
Any port in a storm.
Any water in the desert will do.
Anyone can hold the helm when the sea is calm.
Anyone can stand adversity but to test a person's character, give them power.
Anyone who will gossip to you, will gossip about you.
Anything with scales counts as a fish.
Appearances are deceptive.
As long as you live, keep learning how to live.
As the day lengthens, the cold strengthens.
As the spokes of a wheel are attached to the hub, so all things are attached to life.
As the sun's shadow shifts, so there is no permanence on earth.
As you shall sow, so shall you reap.
At high tide, fish eat ants; at low tide, ants eat fish.
At the bottom of patience one finds heaven.
At the gate of patience there is no crowding.
Avoid a cure that is worse than the disease.
Avoid dishonest gain: no price can recompence the pangs of vice.
Bad gains are true losses.
Be careful what you ask for; you may get it.
Be careful what you wish for.
Be ever vigilant but never suspicious.
Be gracious in defeat.
Be it ever so humble there's no place like home.
Be just before you are generous.
Be nice to people on your way up because you might meet 'em on your way down.
Be not niggardly of what costs thee nothing, as courtesy, counsel and countenance.
Be not overcome by evil but repay evil with good.
Be not water, taking the tint of all colors.
Be slow in choosing a friend, slower still in changing.
Be sure you are right, then go ahead.
Be the change you wish to see in the world.
Be the first in the field and the last to the couch.
Be true to yourself.
Bear and forbear.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Beauty without virtue is a flower without perfume.
Because we focused on the snake, we missed the scorpion.
Before healing others, heal yourself.
Before you marry keep both eyes open; after marriage keep one eye shut.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Beginning is easy; continuing, hard.
Behind every argument lies someone's ignorance.
Being happy is better than being king.
Believe in yourself.
Believe nothing of what you hear and only half of what you see.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without one.
Better a thousand enemies outside the tent than one within it.
Better late than never.
Better one true friend than a hundred relatives.
Better slip with foot than tongue.
Better ten times ill than one time dead.
Better the devil you know than the one you don't
Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
Better to ask the way than go astray.
Better to ask twice than to lose your way.
Better to be safe than sorry.
Better to give than to receive.
Better yourself before others.
Beware a rickety wall, a savage dog and a quarrelsome person.
Beware of little expenses: a small leak will sink a great ship.
Beware of the person with two faces.
   Beware the door with too many keys.
Beware the fury of a patient man.
Beware the Greeks bearing gifts.
Beware the person with nothing to lose.
Birds of a feather, flock together.
Blood is thicker than water.
Bloom where you're planted.
Boys, be ambitious.
Brains are better than brawn.
Bread, oil, Salt and Heart
Bury the hatchet beneath the root of the tree.
But what is happiness except the simple harmony between a man and the life he leads.
Butterflies come to pretty flowers.
Buyer beware.
Buying on credit is robbing next year's crop.
By crawling, a child learns to stand.
By diligence and patience, the mouse bit in two the cable.
By going and coming, a bird weaves its nest.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
Can't get blood from a stone.
Can't see the forest for the trees.
Carve the peg by looking at the hole.
Change is inevitable
Change yourself and fortune will change.
Character building begins in infancy and continues until death.
Character is easier kept than recovered.
Character is habit long continued.
Charity begins at home.
Charity covers a multitude of sins.
Chickens don't praise their own soup.
Children are a poor man's riches.
Children have more need of models than critics.
Choose the hills wisely on which you must do battle.
Choose to be forgiven.
Choose your neighbors before you buy your house.
Chop your own wood; it will warm you twice.
Circumstances alter cases.
Civility costs nothing and buys everything.
Clean your finger before you point at my spots.
Close only counts in horseshoes and grenades.
Clothes don't make the man.
Clothes may disguise a fool, but his voice will give him away.
Clouds gather before a storm.
Clouds that thunder, do not always rain.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Come what may, time and hour runs through the roughest day.
Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes.
Common sense is not so common.
Compete
Confession is good for the soul.
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
Constant dripping will wear away a stone.
Content makes poor men rich; discontent makes rich men poor.
Control your emotions or they will control you.
Count your blessings.
Courage is not the absence of fear; it is the conquest of it.
Courage is the complement of fear.
Cowards die many times before their death.
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Curses like chickens, come home to roost.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Cutting off a mule's ears doesn't make it a horse.
Dally not with other folk's spouses or money.
Dead men don't bite.
Dead men tell no tales.
Deal with the faults of others as gently as your own.
Death is the great leveller.
Death keeps no calendar.
Death never takes a wise man by surprise; he is always ready to go.
Death pays all debts.
Death takes no bribes.
Deeds are fruits; words are leaves.
Depend on others and you will go hungry.
Depend on your walking stick; not on other people.
Destroy your enemy by making him your friend.
Diamond cuts diamond.
Different strokes for different folks.
Difficulties make you a jewel.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Distance lends enchantment to the view.
Do good and care not to whom.
Do good to thy friend to keep him, to thy enemy to gain him.
Do not allow sins to get beyond creeping.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Do not be like the cat who wanted a fish but was afraid to get his paws wet.
Do not dissect a rainbow. In other words, do not destroy a beautiful phenomenon by overanalyzing it.
Do not hold everything as gold which shines like gold.
Do not leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
Do not squander time for that is the stuff that life is made of.
Do the math; count your blessings.
Do unto others as you would have others do unto you.
Do what comes natural.
Do what is right, come what may.
Dog is a man's best friend.
Dogs bark but the caravan moves on.
Don't be caught flat
Don't be led around by the nose.
Don't be too quick to judge.
Don't believe everything you hear.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Don't boast when you set out but only when you get there.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
Don't buy other people's problems.
Don't bypass a town where there's a friend.
Don't call the alligator, big mouth until you have crossed the river.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Don't cross the bridge til you come to it.
Don't cry before you are hurt.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Don't expect things to go right the first time.
Don't find fault, find a remedy.
Don't get your back up.
Don't gild the lily.
Don't give up the ship.
Don't go barking up the wrong tree.
Don't go looking for trouble.
Don't halloo until you're out of the wood.
Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Don't judge anyone unless you've walked in their moccasins one moon.
Don't judge of men's wealth or piety by their Sunday appearances.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Don't let anyone get your goat.
Don't let the critics get you down.
Don't let the grass grow on the path of friendship.
Don't look where you fell but where you slipped.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don't plant a seed in the sea.
Don't pretend to be something you aren't.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Don't reinvent the wheel.
Don't rob Peter to pay Paul.
Don't rush the river.
Don't sail out farther than you can row back.
Don't say amen to an unacceptable prayer.
Don't spill the beans.
Don't sweat the small stuff.
Don't take any wooden nickels.
Don't take no for an answer.
Don't talk unless you can improve the silence.
Don't throw the baby out with the bath water.
Don't toot your own horn.
Don't treat the symptom, instead find the cause.
Don't try to reinvent the wheel.
Don't wish your life away.
Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his brother.
Doubt is the key to knowledge.
Drive gently over the stones.
E'er you remark another's sin, bid your own conscience look within.
Each bay, its own wind.
Each person has his strong point.
Each year one vicious habit rooted out, in time might make the worst man good throughout.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Earth is dearer than gold.
Easier said than done.
East, west, home's best.
Easy come, easy go.
Easy does it.
Eat coconuts while you have teeth.
Eat to live, not live to eat.
Economy is the wealth of the poor and the wisdom of the rich.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
Empty sacks will never stand upright.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Envy has no rest.
Envy is based on an incomplete understanding of the other person's situation.
Envy of others always shows.
Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.
Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut.
Even a sheet of paper has two sides.
Even a worm will turn.
Even children of the same mother, look different.
Even in Mecca, people make money.
Even monkeys fall out of trees.
Even the best laid plans go awry.
Even the best song becomes tiresome if heard too often.
Even the best writer has to erase.
Even the largest army is nothing without a good general.
Even though you have ten thousand fields, you can eat but one measure of rice a day.
Every adversity carries with it the seed of equal or greater benefit.
Every age has its book.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
Every burro has his own saddle.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every day of your life is a page of your history.
Every dog has its day.
Every dog is allowed one bite.
Every garden may have some weeds.
Every head is a world.
Every herring must hang by his own gill.
Every horse thinks his own pack heaviest.
Every jack has his jill; if only they can find each other.
Every land has its own law.
Every man for himself.
Every man has his price.
Every man has to seek his own way to make himself more noble and to realize his own true worth.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Every peddlar praises his own needles.
Every picture tells a story.
Every pot will find its lid.
Every tear has a smile behind it.
Everybody makes mistakes.
Everyone gets their just deserts.
Everyone is ignorant only on different subjects.
Everyone is the age of their heart.
Everyone wants to live long but no one wants to be called old.
Everything comes to those who wait.
Everything in moderation.
Everything is lovely when the geese honk high.
Exaggeration is truth that has lost its temper.
Example is the best precept.
Expect the worst, but hope for the best.
Experience is the best teacher.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Experience teaches slowly and at the cost of mistakes.
Fact is stranger than fiction.
Failure is a teacher; a harsh one, but the best.
Failure is the path of least persistence.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Faith is the ability to not panic.
Falling is easier than rising.
False friends leave you in times of trouble.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fear makes the wolf bigger than he is.
Fear the Greeks bearing gifts.
Fear the person who fears you.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Fire in the heart sends smoke into the head.
First come, first served.
First food, then religion.
First things first.
Fish don't get caught in deep water.
Fishing without a net is merely bathing.
Focus on what's right in your world instead of what's wrong.
Follow your dreams.
Following the path of least resistence is what makes both men and rivers crooked.
Fools and scissors require good handling.
Fools are like other folks as long as they are silent.
Fools rush in where wise men fear to tread.
For every bow there is an arrow. (For everyone there is someone.)
For news of the heart, ask the face.
Forethought is easy, repentance is hard.
Forewarn'd, forearm'd.
Forgive and forget.
Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
Four horses cannot overtake the tongue.
Friends are God's way of taking care of us.
Friendship increases by visiting friends but visiting seldom.
Friendship is one mind in two bodies.
From the fullness of the heart, the mouth speaks.
Froth is not beer.
Gather the breadfruit from the farthest branches first.
Genius is ninety percent perspiration and ten percent inspiration.
Genius is only a great aptitude for patience.
Get out of harms way.
Get to the root of the problem.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and he'll eat forever.
Give an extra piece of cake to a stepchild.
Give assistance not advice in a crisis.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give even an onion, graciously.
Give every man thy ear but few thy voice.
Give good and get good.
Give the devil his due.
Give thy thoughts no tongue.
Give up the ghost.
Given a challenge, rise to the occasion.
Glass, china and reputation are easily crack'd and never well mended.
Go for it.
God did not create hurry.
God gave us music that we might pray without words.
God gave us the nuts but he doesn't crack them.
God grant me a good sword and no use for it.
God helps those who help themselves.
God wants spiritual fruit, not religious nuts.
Going beyond is as bad as falling short.
Gold is the devil's fishhook.
Good counsellors lack no clients.
Good deeds are the best prayer.
Good example is the best sermon.
Good memories are our second chance at happiness.
Good things come in small packages.
Good things come when you least expect them.
Good to forgive, better to forget.
Good wine needs no bush.
Good words are worth much and cost little.
Goodness does not consist in greatness but greatness in goodness.
Grace thou thy house and let not that grace thee.
Grain by grain a loaf, stone by stone, a castle.
Gratitude is the sign of noble souls.
Great actions are not always true sons of great and mighty resolutions.
Great chiefs prove their worthiness.
Great good nature without prudence is a great misfortune.
Great ideas are the fuel of progress.
Great minds have purposes, others have wishes.
Great minds think alike.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
Greed often overreaches itself.
Grin and bear it.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Half the truth is often a whole lie.
Half the world knows not how the other half lives.
Handsome is as handsome does.
Happiness depends on ourselves.
Happiness is a state of mind.
Happiness isn't a goal, it's a by
Happy is as happy does.
Happy is the bride that the sun shines on.
Happy is the person who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Happy nations have no history.
Hard words break no bones.
Haste has no blessing.
Haste makes waste.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Have confidence in yourself and you can lick anything.
Have the courage of your convictions.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
Hay is for horses.
He lives long who lives well.
He that cannot endure the bad will not live to see the good.
He that cannot obey, cannot command.
He that complies against his will, is of the same opinion still.
He that first cries out "stop thief" is often he that has stolen the treasure.
He that goes aborrowing, goes asorrowing.
He that hath a trade, hath an estate.
He that is hard to please, may get nothing in the end.
He that is rich need not live sparingly and he that can live sparingly need not be rich.
He that lies down with the dogs riseth with fleas.
He that pays for work before it's done, has but a pennyworth for two pence.
He that pays the piper, calls the tune.
He that resolves to mend hereafter, resolves not to mend now.
He that respects himself is safe from others.
He that scatters thorns, let him not go barefoot.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
He that waits on fortune is never sure of a dinner.
He that would eat the fruit, must climb the tree.
He that would govern others, first should be the master of himself.
He that would live in peace and at ease, must not speak all he knows, nor judge all he sees.
He who bites the hand that feeds him, ends up licking the boot that kicks him.
He who flees at the right time can fight again.
He who has a why to live can bear almost any how.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who laughs last, laughs best.
He who plots to hurt others often hurts himself.
He who rules must fully humor as much as he commands.
He who wants to do good, knocks at the gate; he who loves finds the gates open.
Health is better than wealth.
Hear reason or she will make you feel her.
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer.
His bark is worse than his bite.
History repeats itself.
Hit the nail on the head.
Hold a true friend with both your hands.
Hold fast to the words of your ancestors.
Home is where the heart is.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honor is better than honors.
Hope for the best and prepare for the worst.
Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
Hope springs eternal.
However long the night, the dawn will break.
Human salvation lies in the hands of the creatively maladjusted.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hurry is good only for catching flies.
Hurry no man's cattle; you may come to own a donkey yourself.
Idleness and pride tax with a heavier hand than kings and parliaments.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If evils come not then our fears are in vain; and if they do, fear but augments the pain.
If God wants people to suffer, he sends them too much understanding.
If God were not willing to forgive sin, heaven would be empty.
If I keep my character, I'll be rich enough.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
If not today
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
If someone gives you advice, it is in his own interest.
If the bird hadn't sung, it wouldn't have been shot.
If the eyes didn't see, the hands wouldn't take.
If the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail.
If the rich could hire people to die for them, the poor could make a nice living.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If the townspeople are happy, look to the chief.
If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride.
If you don't want trouble, don't go looking for it.
If you are afraid of something, you give it power over you.
If you are going a long way, go slowly.
If you are hiding, don't light a fire.
If you are not a fish, how can you tell if the fish are happy?
If you are not good for yourself, how can you be good for others.
If you are patient in one moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
If you believe everything you read, better not read.
If you buy things you don't need, you will soon be selling things you do need.
If you buy what you don't need, you steal from yourself.
If you call one wolf, you invite the pack.
If you can't bite, better not show your teeth.
If you can't say anything nice, then don't say anything at all.
If you can't serve, you can't rule.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
If you don't have a plan for yourself, you'll be part of someone else's.
If you don't laugh, you'll cry.
If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain.
If you don't see the bottom, don't wade.
If you fail to practice your art, it will soon disappear.
If you follow a fool, you are a fool yourself.
If you foolishly ignore beauty, then you will soon find yourself without it.
If you ford a river in a crowd, the crocodiles won't get you. (Ed. note: If your lucky!)
If you give orders and leave, the work won't get done.
If you have nothing to lose, you can try everything.
If you have, give; if you lack, seek.
If you kick a stone in anger you will hurt your foot.
If you know how to spend less than you get, you have the philosopher's stone.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
If you pray for another, you will be helped yourself.
If you think your bundle of clothes too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
If you want something done right, do it yourself.
If you want to lift yourself up, lift someone else up.
If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself.
If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months.
If you would get ahead, be a bridge.
If you would hit the mark, you must aim a little above it.
If you would live long, open your heart.
If you would rise in the world, veil ambition with the forms of humanity.
If you'ld have a servant that you like, serve yourself.
If you've never run aground, you've never been anywhere!
If youth knew, if age could.
Ignorance is a voluntary misfortune.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance is the seed of intimidation.
Ill gotten goods never thrive.
Ill weeds grow fast.
Imagination is more important than knowledge.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Implementation beats oration.
In a crisis, give help first and then advice.
In bad luck, hold out; in good luck, hold in.
In bad things be slow; in good things be fast.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In night there is counsel.
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In time we hate that which we often fear.
Industry pays debts, despair encreases them.
Industry, perseverance & frugality make fortune yield.
Instead of seeking new landscapes, develop new eyes.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
Interest on debt grows without rain.
Into every life a little rain must fall.
It ain't over til it's over.
It is a fool's sheep that breaks loose twice.
It is a foolish sheep that makes the wolf its confessor.
It is as cheap sitting as it is standing.
It is better to be born a beggar than a fool.
It is better to be the head of a chicken than the rear of an ox.
It is better to enjoy the cool breeze of others waving your flag, than to suffer the sweat of doing it yourself.
It is better to give than to receive.
It is better to light one candle than to curse the darkness.
It is better to prevent than to cure.
It is better to return a borrowed pot with a little something you last cooked in it.
It is better to suffer for truth than to prosper by falsehood.
It is better to take many injuries than to give one.
It is better to wear out one's shoes than one's sheets.
It is easier to believe than to go and ask.
It is easier to criticize than to do better.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop gossip.
It is easy to advise the wise.
It is easy to be brave from a distance.
It is easy to despise what you cannot get.
It is easy to kick a person when he is down.
It is far easier to start something than to finish it.
It is foolish to try to imitate the skills of others.
It is hard for an ex
It is not fair to ask of others what you are not willing to do yourself.
It is often easier to fight for your principles than to live up to them.
It is possible to have too much of a good thing.
It is said that you can't take it with you; I say there are two things you can take with you: the things you do for others and the things you do to others
It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
It is useless attacking the insensible.
It is wise not to seek a secret and honest not to reveal it.
It never rains but it pours.
It pays to be content with your lot.
It pays to be nice.
It pays to be prepared.
It takes a heap of licks to hit a nail in the dark.
It takes a village to raise a child.
It takes all kinds to make a world go round.
It takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan.
It takes one to know one.
It takes two to tangle.
It's a small world.
It's all in how you look at things.
It's an ill bird that fouls his own nest.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
It's better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
It's better to find a whole worm in your apple than half a worm.
It's but little good you'll do a
It's never too late.
It's no use closing the barn door after the horse is gone.
It's not enough to know how to ride
It's not the end of the world.
It's not what you say; it's how you say it.
It's okay to make a mistake, as long as you learn from it.
It's six of one, half dozen of another.
It's the little things that count.
Jealousy is a disease for the weak.
Just because everybody's doing something, doesn't mean it's right.
Just because something doesn't do what you planned it to do, doesn't mean it's useless.
Just because something is common sense doesn't mean it's common practice.
Justice is truth in action.
Keep a stiff upper lip.
Keep an open mind.
Keep conscience clear, then never fear.
Keep no more cats than will catch mice.
Keep thy shop and thy shop will keep thee.
Keep your chin up.
Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows.
Keep your friends close, your enemies even closer.
Keep your friendships in repair.
Keep your head about you.
Keep your nose to the grindstone.
Keep your shirt on.
Kind words are short and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless.
Kind words conquer.
Kindness is more persuasive than force.
Kingdoms divided soon fall.
Know thyself.
Know which side your bread is buttered on.
Knowledge is more than equivalent to force.
Knowledge is power.
Laugh and the world laughs with you; cry and you cry alone.
Laugh every day; it's like inner jogging.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Laws catch flies but let hornets go free.
Learn from other peoples mistakes.
Learn from your mistakes.
Learning is best when put into practice.
Learning is better than house and land.
Least said, soonest mended
Leave no stone unturned.
Lend your money and lose your friend.
Less is more.
Let bygones be bygones.
Let pride go afore, shame will follow after.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the punishment fit the crime.
Let your head be more than a funnel to your stomach.
Let's get things straight.
Liars need good memories.
Liars often set their own traps.
Life has its little ups and downs.
Life is a journey, not a destination.
Life is like the moon: now full, now dark.
Life is not a dress rehearsal.
Life is not measured by the number of breaths we take, but by the moments that take our breath away
Life is one big experiment.
Life is short and full of blisters.
Life is the greatest bargain; we get it for nothing.
Life is too short to waste.
Life is what you make it.
Life isn't all beer and skittles.
Light gains make heavy purses.
Lightning never strikes the same place twice.
Like a fish, one should look for holes in the net.
Like breeds like.
Like father, like son.
Like father, like son.
Little by little does the trick.
Little by little one walks far.
Little fish are sweet.
Little friends may prove great friends.
Little is spent with difficulty, much with ease.
Little leaks sink the ship.
Little pitchers have big ears.
Little said is soonest mended.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Little thieves are hanged but great ones escape.
Live and learn.
Live and let live.
Live life to the fullest because you may not have it tomorrow.
Live your own life, for you will die your own death.
Look at the bright side.
Look before you leap.
Looks can be deceiving.
Loose lips sink ships.
Lost time is never found again.
Love is often the fruit of marriage.
Love isn't love until you give it away.
Love me, love my dog.
Love will find a way.
Make a friend when you don't need one.
Make a meal and contention will cease.
Make do with what you have.
Make haste slowly.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make the most of every situation.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
Manana (tomorrow) is often the busiest day of the week.
Many hands make light work.
Many have quarreled about religion that never practised it.
Many meet the gods but few salute them.
Marry in haste, repent in leisure.
Masterly retreat is in itself a victory.
May the outward and inward man be at one.
May the wind be always at your back.
Measure a thousand times; cut once.
Medicine left in the container can't help.
Mediocrity is climbing molehills without sweating.
Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself but talent instantly recognizes genius.
Men willingly believe what they wish.
Mess with the bull and one usually gets the horns.
Mind your p's and q's.
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
Mistakes are doorways to discovery.
Money buys everything but good sense.
Money has no value if it is not used.
Money has no value if it is not used.
More than enough is too much.
Most people are about as happy as they make their minds up to be.
Much ado about nothing.
Music has charms to soothe a savage beast.
Nature is the art of God.
Necessity is a great teacher.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
Neglect kills injuries, revenge increases them.
Neglect mending a small fault and 'twill soon be a great one.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be.
Never apologize before you are accused.
Never bet your money on another man's game.
Never change horses in midstream.
Never cut what can be untied.
Never give advice unasked.
Never give up hope.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Never mind whether the horse is blind or not, just load up the wagon.
Never mistake a single mistake with a final mistake.
Never pick up what you didn't put down.
Never put off until tomorrow what can be done today.
Never reveal the bottom of your purse or the depth of your mind.
Never say die.
Never say never.
Never spend time with people who don't respect you.
Never spend your money before you have it.
Never stop learning.
Never take anything for granted.
Never trouble trouble 'til trouble troubles you.
New day, new fate.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
No act of kindness no matter how small is ever wasted.
No better relation than a prudent and faithful friend.
No clock is more regular than the belly.
No gains without pains.
No legacy is as rich as honesty.
No man can lose what he never had.
No man fears what he has seen grow.
No news is good news.
No offense taken when none is meant.
No one can make us feel inferior without our consent.
No one goes through life unscathed.
No one is easy to live with all of the time.
No one is good at everything but everyone is good at something.
No one is hurt by doing the right thing.
No one should be judge in his own cause.
No pain, no gain.
No rest for the weary.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
No sin is hidden to the soul.
No sleep, no dreams.
No time like the present.
Nobility is not a birthright, but is defined by one's actions.
Nobody's perfect.
Nor eye in a letter, nor hand in a purse, nor ear in the secret of another.
Not all who make love, make marriages.
Not everything you hear is good for talk.
Nothing goes on forever.
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
Nothing is a waste of time if you use the experience wisely.
Nothing is as burdensome as a secret.
Nothing is as good as it seems beforehand.
Nothing is black or white.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Nothing is difficult if you're used to it.
Nothing is easy to the unwilling.
Nothing is impossible to the willing heart.
Nothing is impossible to the willing mind.
Nothing remains constant except change itself.
Nothing seems expensive on credit.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Observe all men; thyself most.
Of all the plants that cover the earth and lie like a fringe of hair upon the body of our grandmother, try to obtain knowledge that you may be strengthened in life.
Off with the old and on with the new.
Often, less is more.
Once a word is spoken, it flies, you can't catch it.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Once the rice is pudding, it's too late to reclaim the rice.
Once you reach the top, take care as the only way left to go is down.
One day at a time.
One day in perfect health is much.
One does evil enough when one does nothing good.
One enemy is too many and a hundred friends too few.
One father is more than a hundred schoolmasters.
One flower makes no garland.
One generation plants the trees, another gets the shade.
One good turn deserves another.
One hand for yourself and one for the ship.
One hand washes the other.
One head cannot hold all wisdom.
One man can make a difference.
One man may be more cunning than another, but not more cunning than everybody else.
One man's beard is on fire; another man warms his hands on it.
One man's junk is another man's treasure.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
One must not play on the nose of a sleeping bear.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
One should learn to sail in all waters.
One should speak little with others and much with oneself.
One step at a time.
One step leads to another.
One swallow never makes a summer.
One thing leads to another.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights.
One who steals has no right to complain if he is robbed.
One who waits for chance, may wait a year.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world.
Only a fool hates that which he knows nothing about.
Only a fool tests the water with both feet.
Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals.
Only the sufferers know how their bellies ache.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
Open your arms to change, but don't let go of your values.
Opportunities come but do not linger.
Our brightest blazes are commonly kindled by unexpected sparks.
Our deeds determine us as much as we determine our deeds.
Our desires are the cause of our suffering and pain in life.
Our fears always outnumber our dangers.
Our greatest weakness lies in giving up.
Our handicaps exist only in our minds.
Our life is what our thoughts make it.
Out of adversity comes opportunity.
Out of debt, out of danger.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of the frying pan, into the fire.
Out of the fullness of the heart, the mouth speaks.
Outside show is a poor substitute for inner worth.
Paintings and fightings are best seen at a distance.
Parting is such sweet sorrow.
Patience is a virtue.
Patience is bitter but its fruit is sweet.
Patience is the companion of wisdom.
Pay what you owe and what you're worth you'll know.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
People are architects of their own fortune.
People learn more on their own rather than being force fed.
People should take time to be happy.
People show their character by what they laugh at.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Persevere no matter what.
Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating.
Persistence is the key.
Persuasion is better than force.
Philosophy as well as foppery often changes fashion.
Pick your battles.
Pick your poison.
Plan your life at New Year's, your day at dawn.
Plan your life like you will live forever, and live your life like you will die the next day.
Play the hand you're dealt.
Play the part and you shall become.
Please all and you will soon please none.
Pleasing ware is half sold.
Pleasures are transient
Plenty sits still, hunger is a wanderer.
Poetry moves heaven and earth.
Poor people share with the heart.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Postpone today's anger until tomorrow.
Poverty breeds discontent.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Praise the young and they will blossom.
Pray as if no work could help and work as if no prayer could help.
Presumption first blinds a man, then sets him a running.
Pretty is as pretty does.
Pride is as loud a beggar as want and a great deal more saucy.
Proclaim not all thou knowest, all thou owest, all thou hast, nor all thou can'st.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Procrastination only adds stress to your life.
Promise little and do much.
Property has its duties as well as its rights.
Prophecy is the most gratuitous form of error.
Proverbs are the daughters of experience.
Put a silk on a goat and it is still a goat.
Put off for one day and ten days will pass by.
Put on your thinking cap.
Put two and two together.
Quality, not quantity.
Quarrels never could last long, if on one side only lay the wrong.
Quit while your ahead.
Rather go to bed supperless than run in debt for a breakfast.
Record only the sunny hours.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd take warning.
Remember that not getting what you want is sometimes a wonderful stroke of luck.
Repay evil with kindness.
Rocks need no protection from the rain. (Ed. Note: Except over time!)
Roll with the punches.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Rudeness is a weak man's imitation of strength.
Sacrificing means more.
Save for a rainy day.
Save money and money will save you.
Scatter with one hand; gather with two.
Search others for their virtues, thyself for thy vices.
See life through an artist's eye.
Seeing is believing.
Seek advice but use your own common sense.
Seek virtue and of that posest, to Providence resign the rest.
Seize the day.
Self conceit may lead to self destruction.
Self praise is no recommendation.
Send a thief to catch a thief.
Shrouds are made without pockets.
Silence is golden.
Silence is often misinterpreted but never misquoted.
Silence is sometimes the answer.
Silence is the hardest argument to refute.
Sin is not hurtful because it is forbidden but it is forbidden because it is hurtful
Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get.
Sing away sorrow, cast away care.
Six feet of earth makes us all equal.
Sleep tight, don't let the bedbugs bite.
Sleeping people can't fall down.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Small children give you a headache, big children a heartache.
Smiles open many doors.
Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors.
Some things are better left unsaid.
Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease.
Sometimes, it's too little, too late.
Sometimes, less is more.
Sorrow doesn't kill, reckless joy does.
Sorrow is to the soul, as worm is to wood.
Spare your breath to cool your porridge.
Spending is quick; earning is slow.
Spring is in the air.
Stick to your guns.
Stick to your knitting.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names can never hurt me.
Stones decay, words last.
Stop and smell the roses.
Strangers are just friends waiting to happen.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Stupid is as stupid does.
Success has many parents but failure is an orphan.
Success has ruined many a man.
Sum up at night what thou hast done by day.
Sun is good for cucumbers, rain for rice.
Sweet are the slumbers of a virtuous man.
Take care of the minutes and the hours will take care of themselves.
Take it straight from the horse's mouth.
Take life as it comes.
Take the bull by the horns.
Tap even a stone bridge before crossing it.
td>Caesar did not merit the triumphal car more than he that conquers himself.
Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice.
Tell me what you are conceited about, and I'll tell you what you lack.
Tell me whom you love and I'll tell you who you are.
Temper justice with mercy.
Thanks cost nothing.
The afternoon knows what the morning never expected.
The anger of the prudent never shows.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
The arrogance of age must submit to be taught by youth.
The bad plowman quarrels with his ox.
The best candle is understanding.
The best cure for a short temper is a long walk.
The best mirror is an old friend.
The best sauce in the world is hunger.
The best thing a man can do for his kids is to love their mother.
The best thing about telling the truth is...you don't have to remember what you said!
The best things in life are free.
The best way to keep good acts in memory is to repeat them.
The best way to predict the future is to create it.
The bigger they are, the harder they fall.
The blind person is not afraid of ghosts.
The blocks of wood should not dictate to the carver.
The brave person regards dying as going home.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the seller but one.
The calm before the storm.
The cat would eat fish but would not get her feet wet.
The chief object of education is not to learn things but to unlearn things.
The company makes the feast.
The complete fool is half prophet.
The contented person can never be ruined.
The continuous drip polishes the stone.
The covetous person is always in want.
The crab that walks too far, falls into the pot.
The cream always rises to the top.
The creditor hath a better memory than the debtor.
The crow may be caged but his thoughts are in the cornfield.
The customer is always right.
The darkest hours are just before dawn.
The day has eyes; the night has ears.
The day you decide to do it, is your lucky day.
The deceitful have no friends.
The devil catches most souls in a golden net.
The devil dances in empty pockets.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
The devil looks after his own.
The devil tempts but doesn't force.
The devil wipes his breech with poor folks' pride.
The difference between a pig and a hog is the lean in his meat.
The discontented man finds no easy chair.
The doors of wisdom are never shut.
The drum makes a great fuss because it is empty.
The eagle does not catch flies.
The eagle was killed with an arrow made with its own feathers.
The early bird catches the worm.
The early bird gets the worm, the second mouse gets the cheese.
The earth has music for those who listen.
The easiest way to double your money is to fold it in half and put it in your pocket.
The end doesn't justify the means.
The end of one thing is only the beginning of another.
The errors of a wise man make your rule rather than the perfections of a fool.
The eyes are the windows of the soul.
The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living.
The fat is in the fire.
The fly on the water buffalo's back thinks he is taller than the water buffalo.
The fool is thirsty in the midst of water.
The fool never undertakes little.
The frog enjoys itself in water but not in hot water.
The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.
The good will of the governed will be starved if not fed by the good deeds of the governors.
The grand instructor, time.
The grass is always greener in someone else's yard.
The greatest remedy for anger is delay.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand that rocks the cradle, rules the world.
The hardest person to awaken is the person already awake.
The heart at rest sees a feast in everything.
The hero appears only after the tiger is dead.
The higher the monkey climbs, the more he shows his tail.
The higher you climb, the heavier you fall.
The honey is sweet but the bee has a sting.
The house of the loud talker, leaks.
The human tongue is more poisonous than a bee's sting.
The laborer is worth his wage.
The lazy person must work twice.
The leopard does not change his spots.
The lion believes that everyone shares his state of mind.
The longest journey begins with the first step.
The love of liberty is the love of others; the love of power is the love of ourselves.
The love of money is the root of all evil
The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything.
The master of the people is their servant.
The memories of youth make for long, long thoughts.
The miller sees not all the water that flows by his mill.
The mind is willing, but the flesh is weak.
The more the merrier.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey seems.
The most exquisite folly is made of wisdom spun too fine.
The mouse that hath but one hole is taken quickly.
The mouth prays to Buddha but the heart is full of evil.
The new boat will find the old stones.
The old law about an eye for an eye leaves everybody blind.
The old one who is loved, is winter with flowers.
The one being carried does not realize how far away the town is.
The one who teaches is the giver of eyes.
The one who understands does not speak; the one who speaks does not understand.
The only real test in life is to conquer your fears.
The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it.
The palest ink is brighter than the best memorys
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The person afraid of bad luck will never know good.
The person sins, then blames Satan for it.
The person who gets stuck on petty happiness, will not attain great happiness.
The person with burnt fingers asks for tongs.
The pleasure of doing good is the only one that will not wear out.
The poor lack much but the greedy more.
The pot calling the kettle black.
The price of your hat is not always the measure of your brain.
The proof is in the pudding.
The prudent embark when the sea is calm
The rain falls on every roof.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm
The real art of conversation is not only saying the right thing at the right moment but also to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the most tempting moment.
The remedy against bad times is to have patience with them.
The reward of a thing well done, is to have done it.
The right place at the wrong time.
The road to a friend's house is never long.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The salt of patience seasons everything.
The sap rises in the spring.
The second word makes the quarrel.
The shoe knows if the stocking has a hole.
The shoemaker's children have no shoes.
The sight of books removes sorrows from the heart.
The sky's the limit.
The spider and the fly can't make a bargain.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
The stargazer's toe is often stubbed.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
The strength of the heart comes from the soundness of the faith.
The strong should help the weak so that the lives of both shall be made easier.
The teeth that laugh are also those that bite.
The tongue has no bones, yet it breaks bones.
The truly rich are those who enjoy what they have.
The wheel turns slow but it turns sure.
The winds of heaven change suddenly; so do human fortunes.
The wise and the brave dares own that he was wrong.
The wise do as much as they should, not as much as they can.
The wise man learns more from his enemies than the fool does from his friends.
The wise through excess of wisdom is made a fool.
The wise understand by themselves; fools follow the reports of others.
The wolf and the dog agree, at the expense of the goat which together they eat.
The work will teach you.
The world is the traveler's inn.
The worst enemy you have is right in your head.
The worst prison is a closed heart.
The years teach much which the days never know.
United we stand; divided we fall.
Unjustly got wealth is snow sprinkled with hot water.
Vanity blossoms but bares no fruit.
Variety is the spice of life.
Venture a small fish to catch a great one.
Vessels large may venture more but little boats should keep near shore.
Vices are their own punishment.
Violence begets violence.
Virtue alone is true nobility.
Virtue and happiness are mother and daughter.
Virtue is its own reward.
Virtue is like a rich stone, it's best plain set.
Virtue is not knowing but doing.
Walls have ears.
War ends nothing.
War is sweet to those who haven't experienced it.
Waste not, want not.
Watch the pennies and the dollars will take care of themselves.
We boil at different degrees.
We fear what we don't understand.
We learn little from victory, much from defeat.
We'll never know the worth of water 'till the well goes dry.
Wealth and content are not always bedfellows.
Wealth is both an enemy and a friend.
Wealth is but dung; useful only when spread.
Wealth is not his that has it, but his that enjoys it.
Well begun is half done.
Well done is better than well said.
What breaks in a moment may take years to mend.
What cannot be cured must be endured.
What children say, they have heard at home.
What doesn't kill us, makes us stronger.
What goes around, comes around.
What goes up must come down.
What good is honor when you are starving.
What good is running when you're on the wrong road.
What is learned in the cradle lasts to the grave.
What is true by lamplight is not always true in sunlight.
What may not be altered is made lighter by patience.
What one hopes for is always better than what one has.
What signifies knowing the names, if you know not the natures of things.
What you cannot avoid, welcome.
What you do to others will bear fruit in you.
What you give is what you get.
What you have, hold.
What you see is what you get.
What you would seem to be, be really.
What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
What's done is done.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well.
Whatever the boss says goes.
When a thief kisses you, count your teeth.
When eating fruit, remember the one who planted the tree.
When fortune calls, offer her a chair.
When fortune turns against you, even jelly breaks your teeth.
When I eat your bread, I sing your song.
When in doubt, do nothing.
When in Rome do as the Romans do.
When life's path is steep, keep your mind even.
When love and skill go together, expect a masterpiece.
When money speaks, truth keeps silent.
When one door shuts, another opens.
When one is hungry, everything tastes good.
When strict with oneself, one rarely fails.
When surrounded by chaos, find peace within.
When the apple is ripe it will fall.
When the heart is at ease, the body is healthy.
When the heart is full, the tongue will speak.
When the moon is full, it begins to wane.
When the music changes, so does the dance.
When the pupil is ready, the teacher will come.
When the tiger kills, the jackel profits.
When the wind is in the east, tis neither good for man nor beast.
When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
When we think we lead, we are most led.
When what you want doesn't happen, learn to want what does.
When you can do the common things in life in an uncommon way, you will command the attention of the world.
When you die, make others cry because you left something behind not because they lost something.
When you drink water, remember the mountain spring.
When you fall into a pit, you either die or get out.
When you go to a donkey's house, don't talk about ears.
When you say one thing, the clever person understands three.
When you see clouds gathering, prepare to catch rainwater.
When you taste honey, remember gall.
When you're sad, learn something,
Where is there a tree not shaken by the wind.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
Where there's a will, there's a way.
Where there's life, there's hope.
Where you were born is less important than how you live.
Wherever you go, you can't get rid of yourself.
While the cat's away, the mice will play.
Who are a little wise, the best fools be.
Who has deceived thee as oft as thyself.
Who is mighty? He who makes an enemy into a friend.
Who is rich? He that enjoys his portion.
Who is strong? He that can conquer his bad habits.
Who waiteth for dead man's shoes will go long barefoot.
Whoever has a tail of straw should not get too close to the fire.
Whoever wins the war gets to write the history.
Willing is not enough, we must do.
Wink at small faults
Wisdom is easy to carry but difficult to gather.
Wisdom is ofttimes nearer when we stoop than when we soar.
Wisdom is to live in the present, plan for the future and profit from the past.
Wise men learn by others' harms; fools by their own.
Wish not so much to live long as to live well.
Wit is the only wall between us and the dark.
With a stout heart, a mouse can lift an elephant.
With time even a bear can learn to dance.
Without kindness there can be no true joy.
Wonder is the beginning of wisdom,
Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold.
Words have no wings but they can fly a thousand miles.
Words once spoken can never be recalled.
Words should be weighed not counted.
Words spoken are like eggs broken.
Work and you will be strong; sit and you will stink.
Worldly prosperity is like writing on water.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
Worrying never changed anything.
Worthless people blame their karma.
Write injuries in dust, benefits in marble.
Yield to all and you will soon have nothing to yield.
You are what you eat.
You become what you think about.
You can do anything with children if only you play with them.
You can drive out nature with a pitchfork but she keeps on coming back.
You can fool people some of the time, but you can't fool them all of the time.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink.
You can never plan the future by the past.
You can only die once.
You can't be a true winner until you have lost.
You can't beat a dead horse.
You can't build a relationship with a hammer.
You can't buy an inch of time with an inch of gold.
You can't buy love.
You can't fit a square peg in a round hole.
You can't get blood from a stone.
You can't have peace any longer than your neighbor pleases.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
You can't judge a horse by its harness.
You can't make bricks without straw.
You can't play all the time.
You can't please everyone.
You can't see the whole sky through a bamboo tube.
You can't sew buttons on your neighbor's mouth.
You can't stop a pig from wallowing in the mud.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
You can't win them all.
You cannot carve rotten wood.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
You cannot put an old head on young shoulders.
You catch more flies with honey than you do with vinegar.
You don't get anywhere unless you try.
You don't know what you've got until it's gone.
You have to earn respect.
You have to take the bitter with the sweet.
You make the road by walking on it.
You may delay but time will not.
You may light another's candle at your own without loss.
You never fail until you stop trying.
You never know what lies right around the corner.
You never really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks.
You win some, you lose some.
You'll never do anything behind you that won't come up in front of you.
Your own rags are better than another's gown.
Your success and happiness lie in you...resolve to keep happy and your joy and you shall form an invincible host against difficulties.
Your time is the greatest gift you can give to someone.
Your anus will be stretched open far and wide today.
You will die a slow and painful death today.